Unless you literally live under a rock, you’ve
likely heard that elephants have the best
memories in the animal kingdom,they never
forget!
Not only that, but give ’em a memory puzzle,
and they’ll knock it out of the park.
Is there any truth to that, though?
Surely there’s an elephant out there who’s
skipped a meal, or wandered away from the
herd and never found his way back.
One elephant-lover might’ve found the answer
to that question when he visited his former
pet.
They say an elephant never forgets, but that’s
hard to believe.
Even humans, as advanced as we are, forget
simple things.
For a giant animal that’s known to be afraid
of mice to never forget, well, it just sounds
a bit far-fetched.
But maybe it isn’t.
Take Sunita the elephant, for instance.
Unlike most elephants, she didn’t spend
a lifetime grazing on the plains of Africa
or India.
Instead, she spent most of her youth in the
hands of elephant-fanatic Charlie Frank, and
his wife, Madeline.
Charlie adopted Sunita in 1955 when she was
just five years old.
He loved elephants, and along with his wife,
he wanted to share the immensely-talented
and well-trained Sunita, or “Nita,” as
he called her with the world.
With Sunita at their side, Charlie and Madeline
marched in parades, performed in circuses,
and even hit up Hollywood!
Sunita’s lifestyle taxed her brain as she
learned stage directions and circus routines.
But despite sharing the big screen with celebrities
like Lucille Ball, it wouldn’t be until
decades later long after her performance career
ended, that Sunita’s memory was truly tested.
In 1971, Charlie finally feeling the wear
and tear of old age retired from show business.
Unfortunately, it wasn’t exactly easy for
him to bring Sunita back with him and his
wife to their home, in the suburbs.
Faced with a dilemma as to what to do with
his long-time friend and companion, Charlie
considered selling Sunita.
But he just couldn’t bear it, he couldn’t
risk someone treating her poorly.
Instead, Charlie and Madeline donated Sunita
to the Wild Animal Park in San Diego.
The elephant would be afforded the opportunity
to roam with other elephants on open plains.
For 15 years, that’s where Sunita lived,
and for 15 years, Charlie and Madeline never
saw their elephant companion.
After Madeline passed away, and with his own
health declining, Charlie knew he needed to
see his old pachyderm pal again.
After so much time, would she remember him?
Would she be able to recognize him even though
he was far more gray?
Or would her memory be lost, in the blur of
a long complex past?
Charlie simply had to find out once and for
all.
Accompanied by cameras, Charlie approached
the enclosed area Sunita had spent the past
15 years.
He spotted her immediately from about 100
yards away.
He cupped his hands over his mouth and called
to her.
“Nita!
Nita!
What’re you doing out there?”
Charlie playfully said to the elephant.
Cmon!
Hurry up!
Something’s liable to get you out there.
You better come running.”
Sunita didn’t look like she would budge.
But then, she moved.
“You better get over here,” Charlie said.
You could just hear the excitement and love
in his voice as he extended a hand, holding
out a little something to coax Sunita into
moving faster.
Charlie waved his hand, which was filled with
Sunita’s favorite treat jelly beans, and
the elephant rushed toward her old trainer.
She opened up her mouth and let Charlie feed
her the sweet snack, just like the good old
days!
If there was any chance Sunita had forgotten
her old friend, it vanished as the two seemingly
picked up where they’d left off 15 years
ago.
Still, Charlie wasn’t the only thing Sunita
remembered.
After talking with the elephant and feeding
her more jelly beans, Charlie led Sunita out
of the elephant enclosure towards something
they were both familiar with the circus ring.
There in that ring, under the warm San Diego
sunshine, an aging Charlie led Sunita through
the routine they’d developed decades ago.
Both had some rust to shake off, but for the
most part, they nailed the routine!
At nearly 60 years old, Sunita couldn’t
exactly move with the swiftness she had in
her youth; she even had to eat her jelly beans
lying down.
Still, she remembered all of her old tricks.
“As a rule, they’re a friend for life
if you take care of them,” Charlie said
about elephants.
He was confident the elephant truly remembered
him.
“She wouldn’t work for somebody that she
didn’t know”.
In the end, Sunita the elephant was able to
remember the man who changed her life.
What a lovely reunion between this elephant
and her owner!
It’s great to see all the fame didn’t
go to her head.
She still remembered her old routine!